hand and way, go andpwf. Another peculiarity is the use, copious 
for so small a dictionary, of illustrative sentences as a necessary 
supplement to definition when a word has different senses between 
which the distinction is fine, or when a definition is obscure and 
unconvincing until exemplified ; these sentences often are, but still 
more often are not, quotations from standard authors; they are 
meant to establish the sense of the definition by appeal not to ex- 
ternal authority, but to the reader's own consciousness, and there- 
fore their source, even when authoritative, is not named. A third 
and a fourth peculiarity are the direct results of the preceding ones ; 
if common words are to be treated at length, and their uses to be 
copiously illustrated, space must be saved both by the curtest 

1 The remarks likely to be needed for reference on pronunciation, inflexion, &amp;c, will 
be found facing the letter A ; on the page before these remarks is a list of the abbrevia- 
tions used in the Dictionary. 

4347oO 



iv PREFACE 



possible treatment of all that are either uncommon or fitter for the 
encyclopaedia than the dictionary, and by the severest economy of 
expression — amounting to the adoption of telegraphese — that readers 
can be expected to put up with. 

In attaching this great importance to illustration, by the need of 
which the relative length of articles, and our manner of expressing 
ourselves on every page, are governed, we are merely acting, with the 
exaggeration imposed on us by our limited space, upon the principles 
of the O.E.D. That may be said to be the first dictionary for which 
the ideal procedure has been possible, that is, the approaching of 
each article with an open mind and a collection of examples large 
enough to be exhaustive, and the extraction from these of classified 
senses — the first dictionary, to put it another way, in which quota- 
tions have served not merely to adorn or convince, but as the 
indispensable raw material. This procedure — first the collection of 
sentences from all possible sources as raw material, and then the 
independent classification — we have often followed even in that 
part of our book (A — R) in which the O.E.D. , with senses already 
classified and definitions provided, was before us, treating its articles 
rather as quarries to be drawn upon than as structures to be repro- 
duced in little ; and in the later part (S — Z), where we had no longer 
the O.E.D. to depend upon, it has been our practice still more often; 
for many of the more difficult (i.e. especially the common and 
4 simple ') words, we have collected the quotations given in the best 
modern dictionaries (the Imperial, the Century, the Standard, 
Cassell's Encyclopaedic, Webster, &amp;c), added to these what we 
could get either from other external sources or from our own heads, 
and then framed our articles, often without reference to the arrange- 
ment that we found in any of our authorities. Proceeding in this 
manner, it was almost inevitable that we should be very much alive 
to the inadequacy of mere definition and the need of constant illus- 
tration. That our examples have some general tendency to the 
colloquial, and include many usages for which room has not been 
found in dictionaries many times as large as this, is in harmony 
with our design of on the one hand restricting ourselves for the 
most part to current English, and on the other hand omitting 
nothing to which that description may fairly be applied. 

VOCABULARY 

The words, or senses of words, given are meant to be such only 
as are current ; ' current ', however, is an elastic term ; we might, 
but we do not, stretch it to include all words and senses used by 
Shakspere or in the Bible, on the ground that the whole of Shak- 
spere and the whole of the Bible are still commonly read ; thus the 



PREFACE 



archaic senses of addition (title), buxom (pliant), owe (own), sad 
(serious), sort (suit), and the archaic words shend (scold), wood 
(mad), familiar as they are to readers of Elizabethan literature, are 
not given. We do stretch it to include many words and senses that 
are fossilized, having in themselves no life or capacity for further 
development, but kept extant by being enshrined in perhaps a single 
proverb or phrase that is still in use ; of this sort are coil (confusion), 
preserved by 'shuffled off this mortal coil', and scotch (wound), 
preserved by ' we have scotched the snake, not killed it '. 

Again, of the many thousands of old or new scientific and 
technical terms that have a limited currency some are carried by 
accident into the main stream of the language and become known 
temporarily or permanently, vaguely or precisely, to all ordinarily 
well-informed members of the modern newspaper-reading public. 
For the purposes of a dictionary that is not to be bulky and yet is to 
give a fuller treatment than is usual in dictionaries of its size to the 
undoubtedly current words forming the staple of the language, 
selection among these intruders is a difficult but very necessary 
task. The most that can be hoped for is that every one conversant 
with any special vocabulary may consider us, though sadly deficient 
on his subject, fairly copious on others ; the meaning of many 
learned words that have been omitted as having no pretence to 
general currency may easily be gathered by reference first to the 
stem, which is often the subject of an article, or to another word of 
which the stem is clearly the same, and secondly to the suffix. 

In another class of words and senses the test of currency has led 
us to diverge in the opposite direction from the practice usual in 
dictionaries of this size ; if we give fewer scientific and technical 
terms, we admit colloquial, facetious, slang, and vulgar expressions 
with freedom, merely attaching a cautionary label ; when a well- 
established usage of this kind is omitted, it is not because we 
consider it beneath the dignity of lexicography to record it, but 
because, not being recorded in the dictionaries from which our 
word-list is necessarily compiled, it has escaped our notice ; we have 
not, however, consulted slang dictionaries nor made any attempt at 
completeness in this respect. 

SPELLING 

The spelling adopted is for the most part, but not invariably, that 
of the O.E.D. For instance, the verbs that contain the suffix -ize 
(which see), and their derivatives in -ization &amp;c, are all given 
without the alternative forms in -ise &amp;c, although these are still 
the commoner in British (as opposed to American) printing ; but 
such generally established spellings as judgment, rhyme, axe, have 



vi PREFACE 



not been excluded in favour of the judgement, rime, ax, preferred by 
the O.E.D., but are retained at least as alternatives having the right 
to exist. In dealing with verbs such as level, rivet, bias, whose 
parts and derivatives are variously spelt, the final consonant being 
often doubled with no phonetic or other significance, we have as far 
as possible fallen in with the present tendency, which is to drop the 
useless letter, but stopped short of recognizing forms that at present 
strike every reader as Americanisms; thus we write riveted, riveter, 
but not traveling, traveler. On another point of varying usage — 
the insertion of a mute e in derivatives in -able, -age, -ish, &amp;c, to 
indicate the 'long' sound of the stem vowel (likable or likeable, 
milage or mileage, latish or lateish) — we have thought ourselves 
justified in taking a bolder line, and have consistently omitted the 
-e- ; it is against all analogy (or why not smileing, Romeish, doteage, 
tideal, indescribeable, desireable, exciteable ?), it is used chiefly in 
words not familiar or important enough to have their form respected 
as established, it obscures the different and more valuable use by 
which a soft g or c is indicated as in manageable and serviceable, and 
it tempts bad spellers to such monstrosities as unpalateable, loveable, 
and moveable. In words of the type ardour, colour, favour, where 
the O.E.D. recognizes both -our and -or, we have excluded the 
latter as being (except in particular words like horror and torpor, in 
which it is usually the only form) entirely non- British. Words in 
which -y- has intruded itself without completely dispossessing a 
more correct -i-, as sylvan, tyro, tyre, we have given with the -i- 
form either alone or placed first. In stating the plural of words in 
-o, we have found it impossible to draw any satisfactory line 
between the words that prefer -os and those that prefer -oes ; it may 
perhaps be laid down that on the one hand words of which the 
plural is very commonly used, as potato, have almost invariably 
-oes, and on the other hand words still felt to be foreign or of 
abnormal form, as soprano, chromo for chromolithograph, have 
almost invariably -os ; of many other words it may be said with 
confidence that they use one form only (cf . punctilios, noes) ; but 
the majority fluctuate, and we have not seen our way to doing 
otherwise. We have also to admit that after trying hard at an 
early stage to arrive at some principle that should teach us when to 
separate, when to hyphen, and when to unite the parts of com- 
pound words, we had to abandon the attempt as hopeless, and 
welter in the prevailing chaos. 



PREFACE vii 



PRONUNCIATION 

When the pronunciation of a word is not sufficiently determined 
by the placing of the stress-mark or by vowel quantities, further 
information follows in round brackets. The phonetic values of the 
letters employed in these, and the use of the stress-mark, are 
explained on the page facing the letter A. 

Derivatives are to be understood, unless the contraiy is indicated, 
as following the pronunciation of the main word under which they 
are given or to which they are referred in the etymological note. 

The pronunciation of many words is omitted on the assumption 
that the reader is already familiar with the normal values of some 
letters and combinations. The hard sounds of th and s, and the 
sounds of c (s) and g (3) before i, e, and y, are recorded only for 
special purposes; a vowel that is short before two consonants or 
a single final consonant, or long before a single consonant followed 
by e mute, is not usually marked; and the pronunciation of the 
suffix -ation (-ashn) and of the a in path &amp;c. (-ah-, -a-) is not given. 

To some suffixes no less familiar than -ation pronunciation is 
added in view of certain ignorant or pedantic tendencies. The 
pleasant fiction that cottage is pronounced kotaj, though still pre- 
valent in dictionaries, has perhaps never deceived any one; but 
we have all heard furniture (-tur), knowledge (no-), and often (-t-). 
Against these and other results of the undue influence of spelling 
warnings are freely given. 

In the choice or rejection of alternative pronunciations the O.E.D. 
has always been consulted, but is not always followed. 

ORDER OF SENSES 

From the order in which the senses of a word are here given no 
inference must be drawn as to their historical or other relations, the 
arrangement being freely varied according to the requirements or 
possibilities of the particular word. Sense- development cannot 
always be convincingly presented without abundant quotation from 
authorities, and the historical order is further precluded by the 
uniform omission of obsolete senses. Occasionally, when a rare but 
still current sense throws light on the commoner senses that follow 
or forms the connecting link with the etymology, it has been placed 
at the beginning ; but more commonly the order adopted has been 
that of logical connexion or of comparative familiarity or im- 
portance. 



viii PREFACE 



ETYMOLOGY 

Etymology is given in square brackets at the 3nd of each article. 

Words of Teutonic origin are illustrated by all or some of the 
forms found in cognate languages. With words that have passed 
through several languages on their way to English, the forms taken 
in successive languages are recorded in full, with the following 
exceptions. (1) When OF or the like at the beginning of the etymo- 
logy is not followed by the old French form written in full, it is 
because the latter is identical in spelling with the English or differs 
from it only in some unimportant detail specified in brackets. 
(2) The Latin form of a Greek word is usually omitted, and is to be 
inferred according to the rules of transliteration given below. Thus 
(under pleonasm) ' f . L f . Gk pleonasmos ' is to be read ' f . L 
pleonasmus f. Gk pleonasmos\ A similar omission of a word in 
any other language implies absolute identity of form. 

Greek words are written with the corresponding English letters 
($&gt; X' +&gt; Pi pp\=P n &gt; kh, ps, rh, rrh, and a, tj, w,=ai, ei, 6i), and not 
according to the Latin transliteration, the rules for which are as 
follows: Greek k= Latin c; ai=ae; ou=u; u (exc. in diphthongs) 
= y ; ei = i or e ; oi = oe (but in nom. pi. = i) ; g (before g or k) = n ; also, 
-6s (nom. masc), -6n,=±-us, -um; -es, -e, (1st decl. nom.)=-a; -on 
(nom.)=-o; -6s (genit.) = -is; -a (accus. sing. masc. or fern. ) = -em. 

French nouns of Latin origin are with few exceptions derived 
from the Latin accusative ; but the Latin nominative is here given 
except when (e.g. in words in -atio) a change of stress is involved. 

Greek i\ (e) and w (6), and the e of Latin infinitives of 2nd conj. 
(-ere, -eri), are regularly marked long. The accented letters (a, sb, 
&amp;c.) in forms quoted from Old English or other Teutonic languages 
are long. 

F, G, &amp;c, must not be taken to imply that the word to which 
they are prefixed is current, or is so spelt, in the modern language ; 
nor does it follow from a word's being given as OF that it is obsolete. 

The etymology often contains references in small capitals to 
words and suffixes. 

Hence introduces one or more of the direct derivatives of the word 
treated ; whence introduces such derivatives under a particular sense 
to which they are restricted ; so introduces words derived from 
another language ; hence or cogn. , whence or cogn. , introduce groups 
of partly English and partly foreign derivation. The suffixes of 
such derivatives are commonly printed in small capitals, and are 
thus referred to the suffix article in its alphabetical place. The 
