numbers enclosed in brackets indicate subdivisions of the suffix 



PREFACE ix 

article, and are often used to distinguish among the possible senses 
of the derivative word those in which it is chiefly current. 

The first element of a Latin or other compound word is .often 
referred to a prefix article, and the remainder treated separately 
within brackets; meanings given within the bracket belong to the 
simple word, those of the compound being added if necessaiy outside 
it. Thus convene is [f. F convenir f. L C0T$(venire vent- come) 
assemble, agree, fit]. The stem vent- and the senses agree, fit, are 
here added for the purposes of convention and convenience, which 
are referred to convene. The first element of a Greek compound 
similarly treated is sometimes written according to the current 
(Latin) transliteration, to facilitate reference to the prefix article; 
Greek kakoepeia, under cacoepy, accordingly appears as CACO{epeia). 
Certain similar devices for saving needless repetition will, it is 
believed, explain themselves. 

The etymology of all words from A to R was drawn in the first 
instance from the O.E.D., but was occasionally modified after 
reference to Prof. Skeat's Etymological Dictionary (Clarendon 
Press, 4th edition, 1910). From S to Z Prof. Skeat's work has 
been our main authority, the Century and other dictionaries being 
consulted for the words that he omits. 



REFERENCE BY SMALL CAPITALS 

The use of small capitals for etymological purposes is explained 
above. 
In the same way reference is made 

(1) from the word treated to another word for the purpose of 
contrast, distinction, correlation, or the like. Of this kind are the 
references from slander to libel and scandal, from creationism to 
evolution and vice versa, and from tenon to mortise and vice versa. 

(2) from any member of a group to the word under which the 
group is collected or further explained. Ruby (print.) is in this 
way referred to type ; order (nat. hist.) to class 1 ; and the iron 1 , 
golden, and silver ages to brazen \ 

(3) from one or more words of a proverb or the like to that under 
which alone the proverb is explained. Play l and drake 2 contain 
such references to duck l , flesh and herring to fish \ 

(4) from a compound of the word treated to its other component 
for explanation. The sign ( = ) prefixed to such a reference indicates 
that the simple word treated is itself used in the sense of the com- 
pound. Thus, under pie 1 , sea-pie is merely referred (sea.-j&gt;.) to sea, 
but magpie, besides being referred to the article magpie, is recorded 
(= magpie) as one of the senses of pie. 



PREFACE 



ABBREVIATIONS 

In any article, when the word treated in it is to be quoted or 
mentioned, its initial letter followed by a period is used instead 
of the whole word ; this stands only for the exact form that heads 
the article ; e.g., in the verb love, I. means love (verb or noun), 
but not loving, loved, &amp;c. ; the plural of nouns is represented by 
doubling the letter ; e.g., in extreme, nut, ee., nn., mean extremes, 
nuts ; in the part of an article obviously restricted to a derivative 
the letter may stand for that derivative ; e.g., representation, given 
in the article represent, is followed by a bracket in which r. stands 
not for represent, but for representation ; in the part of an article 
restricted to a compound, the hyphened initials of the two parts are 
used ; e.g., when in doing ground-floor under the article ground the 
phrase get in on the ground-floor is to be explained in a bracket, 
g.-f. is used for ground-floor. 

Of other abbreviations, a list including all that are not either too 
obvious to need explanation or generally current (and accordingly 
to be found in the abbreviation lists given in the first article of each 
letter of the alphabet) follows on the opposite page. In this list, 
three points require mention : (1) the appending of &amp;c. means that 
the abbreviation stands for derivatives or inflexions as well as for 
the simple word given ; e.g., metaphor &amp;c. means metaphor, meta- 
phorical, or metaphorically ; explain &amp;c. means explain, explains, 
explained, explaining, or explanation ; this system is used also with 
abbreviations omitted as obvious ; thus adv. stands not only for 
adverb, but also for adverbial and adverbially ; (2) abbreviations of 
nouns, such as ex. (example), prep, (preposition), are often used 
with the last letter doubled (exx.,prepp.) as plurals ; it has not been 
thought necessary to give these plural forms except in one-letter 
abbreviations (aa., nn.); similar plurals occur for forms that have 
been omitted as obvious iadjj. for adjectives &amp;c); (3) abbreviations 
given in the list with initial capital have always the capital in use ; 
but those given with initial small letter have either form according 
to circumstances ; similarly, though the list is all in Roman type, 
the abbreviations are sometimes for reasons not affecting their sense 
printed in italics. 

June, 1911 



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 



a., adjective 
aa., adjectives 
abl., ablative 
abs., absolute &amp;c. 
ace, according, accusative 
AF, Anglo-French 
alch., alchemy &amp;c. 
alius., allusive &amp;c. 
anal., analogy &amp;c. 
ant., antiquities 
arch., architecture &amp;c. 
Ass., Assyrian 
assim., assimilate &amp;c. 
assoc, associated &amp;c. 
astr(on)., astronomy &amp;c. 
astrol., astrology &amp;c. 
attrib., attributive &amp;c. 
augment., augmentative 
&amp;c. 

b., born 

back-form., back-formation 

bibl., biblical &amp;c. 

Boh., Bohemian 

Bret., Breton 

c, century, circiter 

cc, centuries 

cl., classical 

cogn., cognate 

colloq., colloquial &amp;c. 

comb., combination &amp;c. 

comp., composition, com- 
parative 

compd, compound 

compl., complement 

compp., compounds 

conj., conjunction, conju- 
gation 

conn., connect &amp;c. 

constr., construct &amp;c. 

contr., contraction &amp;c. 

cop., copulative 

Corn., Cornish 

correl., correlative &amp;c. 

d., died 

Da., Danish 

dat., dative 

deriv., derivative &amp;c. 

dial., dialectal 

d iff., different 

different., differentiate &amp;c. 

dim., diminutive &amp;c. 

dissim., dissimilate &amp;c. 

Du., Dutch 

dub., dubious 

E, English 

eccl., ecclesiastical &amp;c. 
ellipt., elliptical &amp;c. 
erron., erroneously 
eth., ethics &amp;c. 
etym., etymology &amp;c. 
euphem., euphemism &amp;c. 
ex., example 
exag., exaggeration &amp;c. 
exc, except 

excl., exclusive &amp;c., excla- 
mation &amp;c. 
expl., explain &amp;c. 
expr., expressing &amp;c. 



F, French 
f., from 

facet., facetious &amp;c. 

fig., figurative &amp;c. 

foil., (the) following (word) 

found., founding 

Fr., French 

freq(uent)., frequentative 

&amp;c. 
Fris., Frisian 

G, German 

gen., general &amp;c, genitive 

Gk, Greek 

gr., grammar &amp;c. 

Hind., Hindi, Hindustani 
hist., history, historical &amp;c. 
hort., horticulture &amp;c. 

i., intransitive 
imit., imitative &amp;c. 
ind., indicative, indirect 
inf., infinitive 
inn., influence &amp;c. 
instr., instrumental (case) 
int., interjection 
intr., intransitive 

joe, jocose &amp;c. 

L, Latin 

LG, Low German 
lit., literal, literally 
LL, late Latin 

ME, middle English (1200- 

1500) 
med., medicine &amp;c. 
mcd. L, medieval Latin 
mctaph., metaphor &amp;c. 
MHG, middle high German 
min., mineralogy 

n., noun 

neg., negative &amp;c. 

nn., nouns 

